I started by designing the deceptive visualization. I wanted to target a broad audience, potentially on social media, but be careful enough with the deception in the encodings to trick some of the skeptics out there. For this visualization I chose to take a political aim to influence viewers to conclude that defunding the Seattle police reduced crime significantly. I was hoping to show both that rising crime was a cause for concern and that police reform solved it so I chose to ask: Did police reform curb rising crime in Seattle?, hoping that the reader would be influened on both points.

In the deceptive plot, I plotted the yearly counts of crime citations by the police over time as a line plot becuase of the temporal nature of the data. The first major manipulation I made on this account was to remove some of the years from the domain of the graph while still connecting al data points with lines, which implies connections that do not actually exist in the data. I carefully chose my dates to have a regular pattern of missing values, so that the missing values did not stand out to the eye, and if the viewer did notice they then might be more likely to rationalize this missing data to themselves. I also ensured that the yearly points I chose guarenteed a positive trend in crime in years leading up to 2020 (the year of police bugjet cuts following the George Floyd protests in Seattle) and a decrease from 2020 to 2021. Next I altered the aspect ratio by starting the y-axis very close to the highest point on the data to visualy magnify the effect of the small drop in crime. I also stretched the high point of the axis the add extra white space to direct the eye upward when following the plot from left to right, and potentially creating the sense that crime may well have continued to rise if not for the event I labeled on the axis. I chose a yearly binning of the crime data becuase this provided the most drastic trends visually, whereas I chose weekly binning for the earnest visualization which reveals significant festures of the data that are blurred by the yearly binning.


For my earnest plot I wanted to get at the heart of the event surrounding recent police reforms in Seattle and chose to ask: How did the George Floyd protests impact crime rates in Seattle? Appart from binning the crime report counts weekly to illustrate fine trends in the data related to the specific events that surrounded police reform in Seattle and not ommitting data as in the deceptive plot, I also marked the week of the george floyd protest under the large peak in arrests to which this spike in crime corresponds. This presentation of the data, especially with the averaverage shown gives the impression that crime has been relatively stable in Seattle in the long-term for the past decade, except for a huge blip corresponding to the Capitol Hill protests, followed by a return to normal. I also chose to start at 0 on the y-axis because the weekly crime counts were low enough to be interprable by the reader and 0 crime might actually mean something to the reader. Although the data was collected more frequently than weekly, I still use chose to connect the weekly data points becuase, there is a sensible notion that weeks connect to each othereven if the data is the aggregate of individual days contained in those weeks.


For both visualizations, I chose to use counts of police citations (the data here is colelcted daily across Seattle) as an index of crime. Its important to note that this can be impacted by both the ammount of crime and the fraction of that which is cited by the police. Thus for a more hollistic viewpoint, a more complex analysis might also take into account the size of the Seattle police force as an indicator of times when the ability of the police to document crime might change. Additionally for both visualizations I chose to use year on the y-axis. Becuase I was looking at a span of years in both plots, I found monthly, weekly,or daily tick frequencies to be too crowded. I also chose to leave off the time axis label for both plots becuase the marking of a timeline event with a date on both axes already communicates to the reader that the axis is time, and the presence of "yearly" or "monthly" in the y-axis label gives the frequency.
